 
Republic of the Philippines 
DEPARTMENT OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY 
Philippine Atmospheric, Geophysical and Astronomical 
Services Administration (PAGASA) 
Weather Division 
 
 
“Tracking the sky… helping the country” 
WFFC BIR Road Diliman, Quezon City Tel. Nos. (632) 927 1335 www.bagong.pagasa.dost.gov.ph 
SEVERE WEATHER BULLETIN #18 
FOR: SEVERE TROPICAL STORM "PEPITO" (SAUDEL)  
TROPICAL CYCLONE: ALERT 
ISSUED AT 11:00 PM, 21 October 2020 
(Valid for broadcast until the next bulletin to be issued at 11 AM tomorrow) 
SEVERE TROPICAL STORM "PEPITO" SLOWS DOWN WHILE MAINTAINING STRENGTH. 
Track and intensity outlook: 
 Track: “PEPITO” is forecast to turn more northwestward tomorrow. It is likely to exit the Philippine Area of Responsibility ( PAR) 
tomorrow morning or afternoon. On the forecast track, this tropical cyclone will turn more westward and accelerate beginning on 
Friday and will head towards the central portion of Vietnam. 
 Intensity: “PEPITO” is forecast to reach its peak intensity within 48 hours. While it is high ly likely to remain a severe tropical 
storm, intensification to typhoon category remains a possible scenario. 
Hazards affecting land areas: 
 Rainfall: Tonight through tomorrow, light to moderate with at times heavy rains will be experienced over Batanes, Ba buyan 
Islands, Pangasinan, Zambales, Bataan, northern Aurora, Occidental Mindoro, Palawan , Western Visayas, Zamboanga 
Peninsula, and Sulu Archipelago. Flooding (including flash floods) and rain -induced landslides may occur during heavy or 
prolonged rainfall especially in areas that are highly or very highly susceptible to these hazards. PAGASA Regional Services 
Divisions may issue local thunderstorm/rainfall advisories and heavy rainfall warnings as appropriate. 
 Winds: High winds to gale-force winds with occasional gusts due to the Southwest Monsoon enhanced by “PEPITO” will continue 
to affect the Northern and Central Luzon, especially over the western portions of these areas. Such conditions are more likely to 
be experienced in coastal and mountainous areas. 
Hazards affecting coastal waters: 
 Gale Warning remains in effect over the entire seaboards of Northern and Central Luzon,  the eastern seaboard of northern 
Quezon including Polillo Islands,  and the western seaboards of Batangas, Occidental Mindoro (including Lubang Island), and 
Palawan (including Calamian and Kalayaan Islands) due to rough to very rough seas (2.8 to 5.5 m). Sea travel is risky over these 
areas, especially for small seacrafts.  
 Moderate to rough seas (1.5 to 2.5 m) will prevail over the eastern seaboards of southern Quezon and Bicol Region. Those with 
small seacrafts are advised to take precautionary measures when venturing out to sea. Inexperienced mariners should avoid 
navigating in these conditions. 
Other disturbance being monitored (as of 10:00 PM): 
 The Tropical Depression outside the PAR was estimated based on all available data at 1,835 km East Northeast of Extreme 
Northern Luzon (23.8°N, 139.4°E). It has maximum sustained winds of 55 km/h near the center and gustiness of up to 70 km/h. 
It is moving south-southwestward at 10 km/h and remains unlikely to enter the PAR. 
 The Low Pressure Area outside the PAR was estimated based on all available data at 1,780 km East of Mindanao (9.3°N, 
142.5°E). It is likely to enter the PAR on Friday and may develop into a tropical depression during the weekend. It is not affecting 
the weather over any portion of the country at this time. 
Location of 
eye/center 
At 10:00 PM  today, the center of Severe Tropical Storm 
"PEPITO" was estimated based on all available data at 305 
km West of Dagupan City, Pangasinan (15.9°N, 117.5°E). 
 
Strength Maximum sustained winds of 95 km/h near the center and 
gustiness of up to 115 km/h. 
Movement Moving Southwestward at 10 km/h. 
Forecast 
Positions 
 24 Hour (Tomorrow evening): 415 km West of Sinait, 
Ilocos Sur (OUTSIDE PAR) (17.4°N, 116.5°E) 
 48 Hour (Friday evening):615 km West of Laoag City, 
Ilocos Norte (OUTSIDE PAR) (17.8°N, 114.8°E) 
 72 Hour (Saturday evening): 1,060 km West of Northern 
Luzon (OUTSIDE PAR) (17.6°N, 110.6°E) 
NO TROPICAL CYCLONE WIND SIGNAL 
The public and the disaster risk reduction and management council concerned are advised to take appropriate actions and 
watch for the  next update to be incorporated in the 4 AM Public Weather Forecast and in the next Severe Weather Bulletin to 
be issued at 11 AM tomorrow. 
     
Prepared by:  RPG  Checked by:  SFD 
 
