 
Republic of the Philippines 
DEPARTMENT OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY 
Philippine Atmospheric, Geophysical and Astronomical 
Services Administration (PAGASA) 
Weather Division 
 
 
     
Prepared by:  RPG  Checked by:  SFD 
 
“Tracking the sky… helping the country” 
WFFC BIR Road Diliman, Quezon City Tel. Nos. (632) 927 1335 www.bagong.pagasa.dost.gov.ph 
SEVERE WEATHER BULLETIN #13 
FOR: TROPICAL STORM "PEPITO" (SAUDEL) 
TROPICAL CYCLONE: WARNING 
ISSUED AT 2:00 AM, 21 October 2020 
(Valid for broadcast until the next bulletin to be issued at 5 AM today) 
TROPICAL STORM "PEPITO" CONTINUES TO TRACK WEST-NORTHWESTWARD OVER THE CARABALLO-CORDILLERA 
MOUNTAINS 
Track and intensity outlook: 
 Track: “PEPITO” is forecast to move generally west-northwestward or westward over the Luzon landmass and emerge over the West 
Philippine Sea this morning. This tropical cyclone may exit the Philippine Area of Responsibility (PAR) tomorrow morning or afternoon. 
 Intensity: “PEPITO” will likely maintain its strength while crossing the landmass. However, a slight weakening in its intensity remains 
a possibility. After crossing Luzon, this tropical cyclone is forecast to furt her intensity and will likely reach severe tropical storm 
category tomorrow. 
Hazards affecting land areas: 
 Rainfall: Today, “PEPITO” will bring moderate to heavy rains over Central Luzon, Cordillera Administrative Region, northern Quezon 
(including Polillo Islands), Nueva Vizcaya, Quirino, Isabela, mainland Cagayan, La Union, and Pangasinan. Light to moderate with at 
times heavy rains will be experienced over Metro Manila and the rest of Luzon, Western Visayas, Zamboanga Peninsula, and 
Bangsamoro. Flooding (including flash floods) and rain-induced landslides may occur during heavy or prolonged rainfall especially in 
areas that are highly or very highly susceptible to these hazards. PAGASA Regional Services Divisions may issue local 
thunderstorm/rainfall advisories and heavy rainfall warnings as appropriate. 
 Winds: Gale -force winds and high (strong to near gale) winds will be experienced in areas under Tropical Cyclone Wind Signal 
(TCWS) #2 and #1, respectively. High to gale -force winds due to the northeasterl y surface wind flow will also be experienced over 
the rest of northern Luzon, especially in coastal and mountainous areas. 
Hazards affecting coastal waters: 
 Gale Warning is in effect over the seaboards of Batanes and Cagayan and the western seaboards of Batangas, Occidental Mindoro  
(including Lubang Island), and Palawan (including Calamian Islands) due to rough to very rough seas (2.8 to 5.5 m). Moreover,  the 
seaboards of areas under TCWS #1 and 2 will also experience rough to very rough seas (2.5 to 5.5 m). Sea travel is risky over these 
areas, especially for those using small seacrafts. 
 Moderate to rough seas (1.5 to 3.0 m) will prevail over Palawan and the e astern seaboards of Southern Luzon, Eastern Visayas, 
Caraga, and Davao Region. Those with small seacrafts are advised to take precautionary measures when venturing out to sea. 
Inexperienced mariners should avoid navigating in these conditions. 
Other disturbance being monitored: 
 At 1:00 AM today, the Tropical Depression outside the PAR was estimated based on all available data at 1,825 km East Northeast of 
Basco, Batanes (24.7°N, 139.6°E). It has maximum sustained winds of 55 km/h near the center and gustine ss of up to 70 km/h. It is 
moving east-southeastward at 15 km/h. This disturbance remains less likely to enter the PAR. 
Location of 
eye/center 
At 1:00 AM today, the center of Tropical Storm "PEPITO"  
was estimat ed based on all av ailable data including those 
from Benguet Doppler Radar  in the vici nity of Bambang, 
Nueva Vizcaya (16.4°N, 121.0°E). 
 
Strength Maximum sustained winds of 75 km/h near the center and 
gustiness of up to 125 km/h. 
Movement Moving West Northwestward at 20 km/h. 
Forecast 
Positions 
 24 Hour (Tonight): 335 km West of Dagupan City, 
Pangasinan (16.3°N, 117.2°E) 
 48 Hour (Wednesday evening): 480 km West of 
Sinait, Ilocos Sur (OUTSIDE PAR) (17.0°N, 
115.9°E) 
 72 Hour (Thursday evening): 710 km West of 
Sinait, Ilocos Sur (OUTSIDE PAR) (17.5°N, 
113.7°E) 
 96 Hour (Friday evening): 1,050 km West of 
Northern Luzon (OUTSIDE PAR) (17.5°N, 
110.5°E) 

 
Republic of the Philippines 
DEPARTMENT OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY 
Philippine Atmospheric, Geophysical and Astronomical 
Services Administration (PAGASA) 
Weather Division 
 
 
     
Prepared by:  RPG  Checked by:  SFD 
 
“Tracking the sky… helping the country” 
WFFC BIR Road Diliman, Quezon City Tel. Nos. (632) 927 1335 www.bagong.pagasa.dost.gov.ph 
SEVERE WEATHER BULLETIN #13 
FOR: TROPICAL STORM "PEPITO" (SAUDEL) 
TROPICAL CYCLONE: WARNING 
TROPICAL CYCLONE WIND SIGNAL 
TCWS Luzon Visayas Mindanao Impacts of the wind 
2 
(61-120 km/h 
winds prevailing 
or expected in 
24 hours) 
Ilocos Sur, La Union, Pangasinan, Ifugao, 
Mountain Province, Benguet, the southern 
portion of Isabela (Palanan, San Mariano, 
Benito Soliven, Naguilian, Gamu, Burgos, San 
Manuel, Aurora, Cabatuan, Luna, Reina 
Mercedes, Cauayan City, Dinapigue, San 
Guillermo, Angadanan, Alicia, San Mateo, 
Ramon, San Isidro, Echague, San Agustin, 
Jones, Santiago City, Cordon), Quirino, Nueva 
Vizcaya, Aurora, Nueva Ecija, Tarlac, and the 
northern portion of Zambales (Iba, Palauig, 
Masinloc, Candelaria, Santa Cruz, Botolan, 
Cabangan). 
- - 
 Light to Moderate damage to high risk 
structures;  
 Very light to light damage to medium -risk 
structures; 
 No damage to very light damage to low risk 
structures 
 Unshielded, old dilapidated schoolhouses, 
makeshift shanties, and other structures of 
light materials are partially damaged or 
unroofed. 
 A number of nipa and cogon houses may be 
partially or totally unroofed. 
 Some old galvanized iron (G.I.) roofs may be 
peeled or blown off. 
 Some wooden, old electric posts are tilted or 
downed. 
 Some damage t o poorly constructed 
signs/billboards 
 In general, the winds may bring light to 
moderate damage to the exposed 
communities. Most banana plants, a few 
mango trees, ipil-ipil and similar types of trees 
are downed or broken. 
 Some coconut trees may be tilted with few 
others broken. 
 Rice and corn may be adversely affected. 
 Considerable damage to shrubbery and trees 
with some heavy-foliaged trees blown down. 
1 
(30-60 km/h 
winds prevailing 
or expected in 
36 hours) 
Ilocos Norte, Kalinga, Abra, the rest of 
Isabela, the rest of Zambales, Pampanga, 
Bulacan, Bataan, Metro Manila, Rizal, and the 
northern portion of Quezon (General Nakar, 
Infanta, Real) including Polillo Islands. 
- - 
 Very light or no damage to low risk structures,  
 Light damage to medium to high risk 
structures 
 Slight damage to some houses of very light 
materials or makeshift structures in exposed 
communities. Some banana plants are tilted, 
a few downed and leaves are generally 
damaged 
 Twigs of small trees may be broken. 
 Rice crops, however, may suffer significan t 
damage when it is in its flowering stage. 
The public and the disaster risk reduction and management council concerned are advised to take appropriate actions and 
watch for the next Severe Weather Bulletin to be issued at 5 AM today. 
 