 
Republic of the Philippines 
DEPARTMENT OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY 
Philippine Atmospheric, Geophysical and Astronomical 
Services Administration (PAGASA) 
Weather Division  
 
     
Prepared by:  RPG  Checked by:  SFD 
 
“Tracking the sky… helping the country” 
WFFC BIR Road Diliman, Quezon City Tel. Nos. (632) 927 1335 www.bagong.pagasa.dost.gov.ph 
SEVERE WEATHER BULLETIN #4 
FOR: TROPICAL DEPRESSION "PEPITO" 
TROPICAL CYCLONE: WARNING 
ISSUED AT 11:00 PM, 19 October 2020 
(Valid for broadcast until the next bulletin to be issued at 2 AM tomorrow) 
TROPICAL DEPRESSION "PEPITO” CONTINUES TO MOVE WEST-NORTHWESTWARD OVER THE PHILIPPINE SEA EAST OF 
BICOL REGION. 
Track and intensity outlook: 
 Track: “PEPITO” will move west-northwestward tonight through tomorrow morning before turning more westward beginning tomorrow 
morning towards the Northern -Central Luzon area. The center of this tropical cyclone is forecast to make landfall over the coast of 
Aurora-Isabela area tomorrow evening or Wednesday early morning. 
 Intensity: “PEPITO” may reach tropical storm category before making landfall. However, there remains a possibility that this tropical 
cyclone makes landfall as a tropical depression. After crossing the landmass of Luzon, “PEPITO” is forecast to intensify and may 
reach severe tropical storm category by Thursday. 
 
Hazards affecting land areas: 
 Rainfall: Tonight through tomorrow evening, “PEPITO” will bring moderate to heavy rains over Bicol Region, Northern Samar, Quezon, 
Aurora, Cagayan, and Isabela. Light to moderate with at times heavy rains wil l be experienced over Metro Manila, CALABARZON, 
Cordillera Administrative Region, the rest of Cagayan Valley and Central Luzon, Zamboanga Peninsula, Bangsamoro, Northern 
Mindanao, Caraga, Samar, Eastern Samar, Romblon, and Marinduque. Flooding (including f lashfloods) and rain-induced landslides 
may occur during heavy or prolonged rainfall especially in areas that are highly or very highly susceptible to these hazards. PAGASA 
Regional Services Divisions may issue local thunderstorm/rainfall advisories and heavy rainfall warnings as appropriate. 
 Winds: High winds (strong to near gale) will be experienced in areas under Tropical Cyclone Wind Signal (TCWS) #1 within 36 hours 
of first raising of the wind signal. High to gale -force winds with occasional gusts due to the northeasterly surface wind flow will be 
experienced over Batanes, Babuyan Islands, and the coastal and/or mountainous areas of mainland Cagayan, Apayao, Ilocos Norte 
and Ilocos Sur. 
 
Hazards affecting coastal waters: 
 Gale Warning is in effect over the seaboards of Batanes, Cagayan, Isabela, Ilocos Norte and Ilocos Sur due to rough to very r ough 
seas (2.8 to 5.0 m). Moreover, the seaboards of areas under TCWS #1 will also experience rough to very rough seas (2.5 to 4.5  m). 
Sea travel is risky over these areas, especially for those using small seacrafts. 
 Moderate to rough seas (1.5 to 3.0 m) will prevail over the western and eastern seaboards of Southern Luzon and the eastern 
seaboards of Eastern Visayas, Caraga, and Davao Region. Those with small seacrafts are advised to take precautionary measures 
when venturing out to sea. Inexperienced mariners should avoid navigating in these conditions. 
Location of 
eye/center 
At 10:00 PM  today, the center of Tropical Depression 
"PEPITO" was estimated based on all available data at 305 
km East of Virac, Catanduanes (14.1°N, 127.0°E). 
 
Strength Maximum sustained winds of 55 km/h near the center and 
gustiness of up to 70 km/h. 
Movement Moving West Northwestward at 20 km/h. 
Forecast 
Positions 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 24 Hour (Tomorrow evening): 45 km South 
Southwest of Casiguran, Aurora (15.9°N, 122.0°E) 
 48 Hour (Wednesday evening):  350 km West of 
Dagupan City, Pangasinan (15.7°N, 117.1°E) 
 72 Hour (Thursday evening): 540 km West of 
Dagupan City, Pangasinan (OUTSIDE PAR) 
(16.2°N, 115.3°E) 
 96 Hour (Friday evening):710 km West of Dagupan 
City, Pangasinan (OUTSIDE PAR) (16.6°N, 113.7°E) 
 120 Hour (Saturday evening): 980 km West of 
Northern Luzon (OUTSIDE PAR) (16.8°N, 111.2°E) 
TROPICAL CYCLONE WIND SIGNAL 

 
Republic of the Philippines 
DEPARTMENT OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY 
Philippine Atmospheric, Geophysical and Astronomical 
Services Administration (PAGASA) 
Weather Division  
 
     
Prepared by:  RPG  Checked by:  SFD 
 
“Tracking the sky… helping the country” 
WFFC BIR Road Diliman, Quezon City Tel. Nos. (632) 927 1335 www.bagong.pagasa.dost.gov.ph 
TCWS Luzon Visayas Mindanao Impacts of the wind 
1 
(30-60 km/h 
winds 
prevailing or 
expected in 36 
hours) 
Isabela, Quirino, Nueva Vizcaya, 
Kalinga, Mountain Province, 
Ifugao, Benguet, La Union, 
Pangasinan, Aurora, Nueva 
Ecija, Tarlac, Zambales, Bulacan, 
Pampanga, Bataan, Metro 
Manila, Rizal, the northern 
portion of Quezon (General 
Nakar, Infanta, Real) including 
Polillo Islands, the extreme 
northern portion of Camarines 
Norte (Vinzons), and 
Catanduanes. 
- - 
 Very light or no damage to low risk structures,  
 Light damage to medium to high risk structures 
 Slight damage to some houses of very light materials or 
makeshift structures in exposed communities. Some banana 
plants are tilted, a few downed and leaves are generally 
damaged 
 Twigs of small trees may be broken. 
 Rice crops, however, may suffer significant damage when it is 
in its flowering stage. 
The public and the disaster risk reduction and management council concerned are advised to take appropriate actions and 
watch for the next Severe Weather Bulletin to be issued at 2 AM tomorrow. 
 
 
     
Prepared by:  RPG  Checked by:  SFD 
 
