 
Republic of the Philippines 
DEPARTMENT OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY 
Philippine Atmospheric, Geophysical and Astronomical 
Services Administration (PAGASA) 
Weather Division  
 
“Tracking the sky… helping the country” 
WFFC BIR Road Diliman, Quezon City Tel. Nos. (632) 927 1335 www.bagong.pagasa.dost.gov.ph 
SEVERE WEATHER BULLETIN #11 
FOR: TROPICAL STORM "PEPITO" (SAUDEL) 
TROPICAL CYCLONE: WARNING 
ISSUED AT 8:00 PM, 20 October 2020 
(Valid for broadcast until the next bulletin to be issued at 11 PM today) 
TROPICAL STORM "PEPITO”  MAINTAINS ITS STRENGTH AS IT ENDANGERS AURORA PROVINCE. 
Track and intensity outlook: 
 Track: “PEPITO” is forecast to make landfall over the coast of Aurora between 8:00 and 11:00 PM today. It will then move 
generally westward while traversing the Luzon landmass, and emerge over the West Philippine Sea tomorrow morning. This 
tropical cyclone may exit the Philippine Area of Responsibility (PAR) on Thursday morning or afternoon. 
 Intensity: After crossing the landmass of Luzon, “PEPITO” is forecast to intensify and may reach severe tropical storm category 
by Thursday. 
Hazards affecting land areas: 
 Rainfall: To night through tomorrow morning, “PEPITO” will bring moderate to heavy rains over Central Luzon, MIMAROPA, 
Camarines Norte, Quezon, Nueva Vizcaya, Quirino, Isabela, mainland Cagayan, La Union, Pangasinan, and Benguet. Light to 
moderate with at times heavy rains will be experienced over Metro Manila and the rest of Luzon, Western Visayas , Zamboanga 
Peninsula, and Bangsamoro. Flooding (including flash floods) and rain-induced landslides may occur during heavy or prolonged 
rainfall especially in areas that are highly or very highly susceptible to these hazards. PAGASA Regional Services Divisions may 
issue local thunderstorm/rainfall advisories and heavy rainfall warnings as appropriate. 
 Winds: High to gale-force winds will be experienced in areas under Tropical Cyclone Wind Signal (TCWS) #1 and 2. High to gale-
force winds with occasional gusts due to the northeasterly surface wind flow will be experienced over Batanes, Babuyan Islands, 
and the coastal and/or mountainous areas of mainland Cagayan, Apayao, and Ilocos Norte. 
Hazards affecting coastal waters: 
 Gale Warning is in effect over the se aboards of Batanes, Cagayan, and Ilocos Norte and the western seaboards of Batangas 
and Occidental Mindoro (including Lubang Island) due to rough to very rough seas (2.8 to 5.0 m). Moreover, the seaboards of 
areas under TCWS #1 and 2 will also experience r ough to very rough seas (2.5 to 5.0 m). Sea travel is risky over these areas, 
especially for those using small seacrafts. 
 Moderate to rough seas (1.5 to 3.0 m) will prevail over Palawan and the eastern seaboards of Southern Luzon, Eastern Visayas, 
Caraga, and Davao Region. Those with small seacrafts are advised to take precautionary measures when venturing out to sea. 
Inexperienced mariners should avoid navigating in these conditions. 
Other disturbance being monitored: 
 At 7:00 PM today, the Tropical Depression outside the PAR was estimated based on all available data at 1,795 km East Northeast 
of Extreme Northern Luzon (24. 8°N, 138.8°E) with maximum sustained winds of 45 km/h and gustiness of up to 55 km/h. It is 
moving northeastward at 15 km/h. This disturbance is less likely to enter the PAR. 
Location of 
eye/center 
At 7:00 PM today, the center of Tropical Storm 
"PEPITO" was estimated based on all available 
data including Baler Doppler Radar  at 70 km 
East of Baler, Aurora (15.7°N, 122.2°E). 
 
Strength Maximum sustained winds of 75 km/h near the 
center and gustiness of up to 90 km/h. 
Movement Moving Westward at 25 km/h. 
Forecast 
Positions 
 24 Hour (Tomorrow evening): 335 km 
West of Dagupan City, Pangasinan 
(16.3°N, 117.2°E) 
 48 Hour (Thursday evening): 555 km 
West of Dagupan City, Pangasinan 
(OUTSIDE PAR) (16.7°N, 115.2°E) 
 72 Hour (Friday evening): 735 km West 
of Sinait, Ilocos Sur (OUTSIDE PAR) 
(17.2°N, 113.5°E) 
 96 Hour (Saturday evening): 1,080 km 
West of Northern Luzon (OUTSIDE 
PAR) (17.6°N, 110.2°E) 
     
Prepared by:  SMRR  Checked by:  JSG 

 
Republic of the Philippines 
DEPARTMENT OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY 
Philippine Atmospheric, Geophysical and Astronomical 
Services Administration (PAGASA) 
Weather Division  
 
“Tracking the sky… helping the country” 
WFFC BIR Road Diliman, Quezon City Tel. Nos. (632) 927 1335 www.bagong.pagasa.dost.gov.ph 
SEVERE WEATHER BULLETIN #11 
FOR: TROPICAL STORM "PEPITO" (SAUDEL) 
TROPICAL CYCLONE: WARNING 
 
TROPICAL CYCLONE WIND SIGNAL 
TCWS Luzon Visayas Mindanao Impacts of the wind 
2 
(61-120 km/h 
winds prevailing 
or expected in 24 
hours) 
La Union, Pangasinan, Ifugao, Benguet, 
Nueva Vizcaya, Quirino, Nueva Ecija, Tarlac, 
Aurora,  the southern portion of Isabela 
(Palanan, San Mariano, Benito Soliven, 
Naguilian, Gamu, Burgos, San Manuel, Aurora, 
Cabatuan, Luna, Reina Mercedes, Cauayan City, 
Dinapigue, San Guillermo, Angadanan, Alicia, 
San Mateo, Ramon, San Isidro, Echague, San 
Agustin, Jones, Santiago City, Cordon), the 
southern portion of Ilocos Sur (Sugpon, Alilem, 
Tagudin), the northern portion of Zambales 
(Iba, Palauig, Masinloc, Candelaria, Santa Cruz, 
Botolan, Cabangan), the northern portion of 
Bulacan (San Miguel, Doña Remedios Trinidad), 
the northern portion of Pampanga (Candaba, 
Arayat, Magalang, Mabalacat) and the northern 
portion of Quezon (General Nakar) including 
Polillo Islands 
- - 
 Light to Moderate damage to high risk 
structures;  
 Very light to light damage to medium -risk 
structures; 
 No damage to very light damage to low risk 
structures 
 Unshielded, old dilapidated schoolhouses, 
makeshift shanties, and other structures of 
light materials are partially damaged or 
unroofed. 
 A number of nipa and cogon houses may be 
partially or totally unroofed. 
 Some old galvanized iron (G.I.) roofs may 
be peeled or blown off. 
 Some wooden, old electric posts a re tilted 
or downed. 
 Some damage to poorly constructed 
signs/billboards 
 In general, the winds may bring light to 
moderate damage to the exposed 
communities. Most banana plants, a few 
mango trees, ipil -ipil and similar types of 
trees are downed or broken. 
 Some coconut trees may be tilted with few 
others broken. 
 Rice and corn may be adversely affected. 
 Considerable damage to shrubbery and 
trees with some heavy-foliaged trees blown 
down. 
1 
(30-60 km/h 
winds prevailing 
or expected in 36 
hours) 
Abra, Kalinga, Mountain Province, Bataan, 
Metro Manila, Rizal, the rest of northern 
portion of Quezon (Infanta, Real), the rest of 
Ilocos Sur, the rest of Isabela, the rest of 
Pampanga, the rest of Bulacan, and the rest of 
Zambales 
- - 
 Very light or no damage to low 
risk structures,  
 Light damage to medium to 
high risk structures 
 Slight damage to some houses 
of very light materials or 
makeshift structures in 
exposed communities. Some 
banana plants are tilted, a few 
downed and leaves are 
generally damaged 
 Twigs of small trees may be 
broken. 
 Rice crops, however, may 
suffer significant damage when 
it is in its flowering stage. 
The public and the disaster risk reduction and management council concerned are advised to take appropriate 
actions and watch for the next Severe Weather Bulletin to be issued at 11 PM today. 
 
     
Prepared by:  SMRR  Checked by:  JSG 
