 
Republic of the Philippines 
DEPARTMENT OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY 
Philippine Atmospheric, Geophysical and Astronomical 
Services Administration (PAGASA) 
Weather Division  
 
“Tracking the sky… helping the country” 
WFFC BIR Road Diliman, Quezon City Tel. Nos. (632) 927 1335 www.bagong.pagasa.dost.gov.ph 
SEVERE WEATHER BULLETIN #8 
FOR: TROPICAL STORM "PEPITO" (SAUDEL) 
TROPICAL CYCLONE: WARNING 
ISSUED AT 11:00 AM, 20 October 2020 
(Valid for broadcast until the next bulletin to be issued at 2 PM today) 
"PEPITO” INTENSIFIES INTO A TROPICAL STORM AS IT MOVES TOWARDS ISABELA - AURORA AREA.  
Track and intensity outlook: 
 Track: “PEPITO” will move west-northwestward today and make landfall over the coast of Aurora-Isabela area between 7:00 and 
11:00 PM. It will then cross the  Luzon landmass, and emerge over the West Philippine Sea tomorrow morning. This tropical 
cyclone may exit the Philippine Area of Responsibility (PAR) on Thursday morning. 
 Intensity: “PEPITO” intensified into a tropical storm at 8:00 AM today. After crossing the landmass of Luzon, “PEPITO” is forecast 
to intensify and may reach severe tropical storm category by Thursday. 
Hazards affecting land areas: 
 Rainfall: Today, “PEPITO” will bring moderate to heavy rains over Bicol Region, MIMAROPA, Quezon, Aurora, Nueva Ecija, 
Nueva Vizcaya, Quirino, Isabela, mainland Cagayan, Pangasinan, and Benguet. Light to moderate with at times heavy rains will 
be experienced over Metro Manila and the rest of Luzon, Western Visayas, Zamboanga Peninsula, and Bangsamoro. Flooding 
(including flashfloods) and rain-induced landslides may occur during heavy or prolonged rainfall especially in areas that are highly 
or very highly susceptible to these hazards. PAGASA Regional Services Divisions may issue local thunderstorm/rainfall 
advisories and heavy rainfall warnings as appropriate. 
 Winds: High to gale-force winds will be experienced in areas under Tropical Cyclone Wind Signal (TCWS) #1 and 2. High to gale-
force winds with occasional gusts due to the northeasterly surface wind flow will be experienced over Batanes, Babuyan Islands, 
and the coastal and/or mountainous areas of mainland Cagayan, Apayao, and Ilocos Norte. 
Hazards affecting coastal waters: 
 Gale Warning is in effect over the seaboards of Batanes, Cagayan, and Ilocos Norte and due to rough to very rough seas (2.8 to 
5.0 m). Moreover, the seaboards of areas under TCWS #1 and 2 will also experience rough to very rough seas (2.5 to 4.5 m). 
Sea travel is risky over these areas, especially for those using small seacrafts. 
 Moderate to rough seas (1.5 to 3.0 m) will prevail over the western and eastern seaboards of Southern Luzon and the eastern 
seaboards of Eastern Visayas, Caraga, and Davao Region. Those with small seacrafts are advised to take precautionary 
measures when venturing out to sea. Inexperienced mariners should avoid navigating in these conditions. 
Other disturbance being monitored: 
 At 10:00 AM today, the Tropical Depression outside the PAR was estimated based on all available data at 1,735 km East 
Northeast of Extreme Northern Luzon (24.4N, 138.3E) with maximum sustained winds of 45 km/h and gustiness of up to 55 km/h. 
It is moving north-northwestward at 15 km/h. This disturbance is less likely to enter the PAR. 
Location of 
eye/center 
At 10:00 AM today, the center of Tropical Storm 
"PEPITO" was estimated based on all available 
data at 295 km East of Baler, Aurora (15.7°N, 
124.3°E). 
 
Strength Maximum sustained winds of 65 km/h near the 
center and gustiness of up to 80 km/h. 
Movement Moving Northwestward at 25 km/h. 
Forecast 
Positions 
 24 Hour (Tomorrow morning): 155 km 
West of Dagupan City, Pangasinan 
(16.1°N, 118.9°E) 
 48 Hour (Thursday morning): 465 km 
West of Dagupan City, Pangasinan 
(16.2°N, 116.0°E) 
 72 Hour (Friday morning): 605 km West 
of Dagupan City, Pangasinan 
(OUTSIDE PAR) (16.5°N, 114.7°E) 
 96 Hour (Saturday morning): 850 km 
West of Northern Luzon (OUTSIDE 
PAR) (16.5°N, 112.4°E) 
     
Prepared by:  SMRR  Checked by:  JSG 

 
Republic of the Philippines 
DEPARTMENT OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY 
Philippine Atmospheric, Geophysical and Astronomical 
Services Administration (PAGASA) 
Weather Division  
 
“Tracking the sky… helping the country” 
WFFC BIR Road Diliman, Quezon City Tel. Nos. (632) 927 1335 www.bagong.pagasa.dost.gov.ph 
SEVERE WEATHER BULLETIN #8 
FOR: TROPICAL STORM "PEPITO" (SAUDEL) 
TROPICAL CYCLONE: WARNING 
 
TROPICAL CYCLONE WIND SIGNAL 
TCWS Luzon Visayas Mindanao Impacts of the wind 
2 
(61-120 km/h 
winds prevailing 
or expected in 24 
hours) 
La Union, Ifugao, Benguet, Nueva Vizcaya, 
Quirino, Pangasinan, Nueva Ecija, Tarlac, 
Aurora,  the southern portion of Isabela 
(Palanan, San Mariano, Benito Soliven, 
Naguilian, Gamu, Burgos, San Manuel, Aurora, 
Cabatuan, Luna, Reina Mercedes, Cauayan City, 
Dinapigue, San Guillermo, Angadanan, Alicia, 
San Mateo, Ramon, San Isidro, Echague, San 
Agustin, Jones, Santiago City, Cordon), the 
southern portion of Ilocos Sur (Sugpon, Alilem, 
Tagudin), the northern portion of Zambales 
(Iba, Palauig, Masinloc, Candelaria, Santa Cruz, 
Botolan, Cabangan), and the northern portion 
of Quezon (General Nakar) including Polillo 
Islands 
- - 
 Light to Moderate damage to high risk 
structures;  
 Very light to light damage to medium -risk 
structures; 
 No damage to very light damage to low risk 
structures 
 Unshielded, old dilapidated schoolhouses, 
makeshift shanties, and other structures of 
light materials are partially damaged or 
unroofed. 
 A number of nipa and cogon houses may be 
partially or totally unroofed. 
 Some old galvanized iron (G.I.) roofs may 
be peeled or blown off. 
 Some wooden, old electric posts are tilted 
or downed. 
 Some damage to poorly constructed 
signs/billboards 
 In general, the winds may bring light to 
moderate damage to the expos ed 
communities. Most banana plants, a few 
mango trees, ipil -ipil and similar types of 
trees are downed or broken. 
 Some coconut trees may be tilted with few 
others broken. 
 Rice and corn may be adversely affected. 
 Considerable damage to shrubbery and 
trees with some heavy-foliaged trees blown 
down. 
1 
(30-60 km/h 
winds prevailing 
or expected in 36 
hours) 
Abra, Kalinga, Mountain Province, Bulacan, 
Pampanga, Bataan, Metro Manila, Rizal, the 
northern portion of Camarines Norte 
(Paracale, Jose Panganiban, Capalonga, 
Vinzons), Catanduanes, the rest of northern 
portion of Quezon (Infanta, Real), the rest of 
Ilocos Sur, the rest of  Isabela, and  the rest of 
Zambales 
- - 
 Very light or no damage to low 
risk structures,  
 Light damage to medium to 
high risk structures 
 Slight damage to some houses 
of very light materials or 
makeshift structures in 
exposed communities. Some 
banana plants are tilted, a few 
downed and leaves are 
generally damaged 
 Twigs of small trees may be 
broken. 
 Rice crops, however, may 
suffer significant damage when 
it is in its flowering stage. 
The public and the disaster risk reduction and management council concerned are advised to take appropriate actions 
and watch for the next Severe Weather Bulletin to be issued at 2 PM today. 
 
     
Prepared by:  SMRR  Checked by:  JSG 

 
Republic of the Philippines 
DEPARTMENT OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY 
Philippine Atmospheric, Geophysical and Astronomical 
Services Administration (PAGASA) 
Weather Division  
 
“Tracking the sky… helping the country” 
WFFC BIR Road Diliman, Quezon City Tel. Nos. (632) 927 1335 www.bagong.pagasa.dost.gov.ph 
 