 
Republic of the Philippines 
DEPARTMENT OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY 
Philippine Atmospheric, Geophysical and Astronomical 
Services Administration (PAGASA) 
Weather Division  
 
     
Prepared by:  RPG  Checked by:  SFD 
 
“Tracking the sky… helping the country” 
WFFC BIR Road Diliman, Quezon City Tel. Nos. (632) 927 1335 www.bagong.pagasa.dost.gov.ph 
SEVERE WEATHER BULLETIN #15 
FOR: TROPICAL STORM "PEPITO" (SAUDEL) 
TROPICAL CYCLONE: WARNING 
ISSUED AT 8:00 AM, 21 October 2020 
(Valid for broadcast until the next bulletin to be issued at 11 AM today) 
TROPICAL STORM "PEPITO" IS NOW OVER THE WEST PHILIPPINE SEA. 
Track and intensity outlook: 
 Track: “PEPITO” is forecast to move generally westward over the West Philippine Sea today, before slowing down and turning 
northwestward tomorrow. It is forecast to exit the Philippine Area of Responsibility (PAR) tomorrow morning or afternoon. On the 
forecast track, “PEPITO” will accelerate and turn westward beginning Friday towards the central portion of Vietnam. 
 Intensity: “PEPITO” is forecast to gradually intensify over the West Philippine Sea and may reach severe tropical storm category by 
tomorrow afternoon or evening. 
Hazards affecting land areas: 
 Rainfall: Today, “PEPITO” will bring moderate to heavy rains over Batanes, Cagayan, Ilocos Norte, Pangasinan, La Union, Apayao, 
Benguet, Zambales, Bataan, Occidental Mindoro, and Calamian Islands. Light to moderat e with at times heavy rains will be 
experienced over Metro Manila and the rest of Luzon. Flooding (including flash floods) and rain-induced landslides may occur during 
heavy or prolonged rainfall especially in areas that are highly or very highly susceptible to these hazards. PAGASA Regional Services 
Divisions may issue local thunderstorm/rainfall advisories and heavy rainfall warnings as appropriate. 
 Winds: Gale-force winds and high (strong to near gale) winds will be experienced in areas under Tropical Cy clone Wind Signal 
(TCWS) #2 and #1, respectively. High to gale -force winds due to the northeasterly surface wind flow will also be experienced over 
the rest of northern Luzon, especially in coastal and mountainous areas. 
Hazards affecting coastal waters: 
 Rough to very rough seas (2.5 to 5.5 m) will be experienced over the areas where TCWS and Gale Warning are in effect. In particular, 
such conditions are expected over the entire seaboards of Northern and Central Luzon, the seaboard of northern Quezon includ ing 
Pollilo Islands, and the western seaboards of Batangas, Occidental Mindoro (including Lubang Islands), and Palawan (including  
Calamian and Kalayaan Islands), Sea travel is risky over these areas, especially for those using small seacrafts. 
 Moderate to rough seas (1.5 to 3.0 m) will prevail over the eastern seaboards of southern Quezon, Bicol Region, Eastern Visayas, 
Caraga, and Davao Region. Those with small seacrafts are advised to take precautionary measures when venturing out to sea. 
Inexperienced mariners should avoid navigating in these conditions. 
Other disturbance beinga monitored: 
 At 7:00 AM today, the Tropical Depression outside the PAR was estimated based on all available data at 1,900 km East Northeast of 
Extreme Northern Luzon (24.9°N, 139.8° E). It has maximum sustained winds of 55 km/h near the center and gustiness of up to 70 
km/h. It is currently almost stationary. This disturbance remains unlikely to enter the PAR. 
Location of 
eye/center 
At 7:00 AM  today, the center of Tropical Storm 
"PEPITO" was estimated based on all available data 
at 115 km Northwest of Dagupan City, Pangasinan 
or 120 km West Northwest of Baguio City ( 16.7°N, 
119.5°E). 
 
Strength Maximum sustained winds of 75 km/h near the center 
and gustiness of up to 90 km/h. 
Movement Moving West Northwestward at 30 km/h. 
Forecast 
Positions 
 24 Hour (Tomorrow morning): 350 km West of 
Dagupan City, Pangasinan (16.5°N, 117.1°E) 
 48 Hour (Friday morning):  465 km West of 
Sinait, Ilocos Sur (OUTSIDE PAR) (17.4°N, 
116.0°E) 
 72 Hour (Saturday morning): 730 km West of 
Sinait, Ilocos Sur (OUTSIDE PAR) (17.7°N, 
113.5°E) 
 96 Hour (Sunday morning):  1,145 km West of 
Northern Luzon (OUTSIDE PAR) (17.7°N, 
109.6°E) 
 

 
Republic of the Philippines 
DEPARTMENT OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY 
Philippine Atmospheric, Geophysical and Astronomical 
Services Administration (PAGASA) 
Weather Division  
 
     
Prepared by:  RPG  Checked by:  SFD 
 
“Tracking the sky… helping the country” 
WFFC BIR Road Diliman, Quezon City Tel. Nos. (632) 927 1335 www.bagong.pagasa.dost.gov.ph 
SEVERE WEATHER BULLETIN #15 
FOR: TROPICAL STORM "PEPITO" (SAUDEL) 
TROPICAL CYCLONE: WARNING 
TROPICAL CYCLONE WIND SIGNAL 
TCWS Luzon Visayas Mindanao Impacts of the wind 
2 
(61-120 km/h 
winds prevailing 
or expected in 24 
hours) 
La Union, the northern portion of Zambales (Iba, 
Palauig, Masinloc, Candelaria, Santa Cruz), and the 
western portion of Pangasinan (Bani, Anda, Bolinao, 
Agno, Dasol, Burgos, Alaminos City, Mabini, Sual, 
Infanta, Bugallon, Labrador, Aguilar, Mangatarem, 
Urbiztondo, Basista, Malasiqui, San Fabian, 
Pozzorubio, Sison, Laoac, Urdaneta City, Manaoag, 
San Jacinto, Dagupan City, Mangaldan, Mapandan, 
Santa Barbara, San Carlos City, Calasiao, Binmaley, 
Lingayen) 
- - 
 Light to Moderate damage to high 
risk structures;  
 Very light to light damage to 
medium-risk structures; 
 No damage to very light damage to 
low risk structures 
 Unshielded, old dilapidated 
schoolhouses, makeshift shanties, 
and other structures of light 
materials are partially damaged or 
unroofed. 
 A number of nipa and cogon 
houses may be partially or totally 
unroofed. 
 Some old galvanized iron (G.I.) 
roofs may be peeled or blown off. 
 Some wooden, old electric posts 
are tilted or downed. 
 Some damage to poorly 
constructed signs/billboards 
 In general, the winds may bring light 
to moderate damage to the 
exposed communities. Most 
banana plants, a few mango tre es, 
ipil-ipil and similar types of trees are 
downed or broken. 
 Some coconut trees may be tilted 
with few others broken. 
 Rice and corn may be adversely 
affected. 
 Considerable damage to shrubbery 
and trees with some heavy-foliaged 
trees blown down. 
1 
(30-60 km/h 
winds 
prevailing or 
expected in 36 
hours) 
Ilocos Norte, Ilocos Sur, the rest of Pangasinan, 
Abra, the western portion of Kalinga (Balbalan, 
Pasil, Lubuagan, Tinglayan), the western portion of 
Mountain Province (Barlig, Sadanga, Bontoc, 
Sagada, Sabangan, Bauko, Tadian, Besao), the 
western portion of Ifugao (Banaue, Hingyon, 
Kiangan, Tinoc, Hungduan, Asipulo), Benguet, the 
western portion of Nueva Vizcaya (Ambaguio, 
Kayapa, Aritao, Santa Fe), the western portion of 
Nueva Ecija (Carranglan, Lupao, Muñoz City, Santo 
Domingo, Zaragoza, Aliaga, Licab, Guimba, Talugtug, 
Quezon, Nampicuan, Cuyapo), Tarlac, and the rest of 
Zambales 
- - 
 Very light or no damage to low risk 
structures,  
 Light damage to medium to high 
risk structures 
 Slight damage to some houses of 
very light materials or makeshif t 
structures in exposed communities. 
Some banana plants are tilted, a 
few downed and leaves are 
generally damaged 
 Twigs of small trees may be broken. 
 Rice crops, however, may suffer 
significant damage when it is in its 
flowering stage. 
TCWS #1 in other areas is hereby lifted. 
The public and the disaster risk reduction and management council concerned are advised to take appropriate actions and 
watch for the next Severe Weather Bulletin to be issued at 11 AM today. 
 
 