 
Republic of the Philippines 
DEPARTMENT OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY 
Philippine Atmospheric, Geophysical and Astronomical 
Services Administration (PAGASA) 
Weather Division  
 
“Tracking the sky… helping the country” 
WFFC BIR Road Diliman, Quezon City Tel. Nos. (632) 927 1335 www.bagong.pagasa.dost.gov.ph 
SEVERE WEATHER BULLETIN #17 
FOR: SEVERE TROPICAL STORM "PEPITO" (SAUDEL) 
TROPICAL CYCLONE: ALERT 
ISSUED AT 5:00 PM, 21 October 2020 
(Valid for broadcast until the next bulletin to be issued at 11 PM today) 
"PEPITO" INTENSIFIES INTO A SEVERE TROPICAL STORM. 
Track and intensity outlook: 
 Track: “PEPITO” is forecast to move generally west-northwestward over the West Philippine Sea today, before slowing down and turning 
northwestward tomorrow. It is forecast to exit the Philippine Area of Responsibility (PAR) tomorrow morning or afternoon. On the forecast 
track, “PEPITO” will accelerate and turn westward beginning Friday towards the central portion of Vietnam. 
 Intensity: “PEPITO” intensified into a severe tropica l storm at 2:00 PM today . It is forecast to gradually intensify over the West 
Philippine Sea and may reach its peak intensity on Friday or Saturday. 
Hazards affecting land areas: 
 Rainfall: Today through tomorrow morning, light to moderate with at times hea vy rains will be experienced over Western Visayas, 
Zamboanga Peninsula, Batanes, Babuyan Islands, Zambales, Bataan, Occidental Mindoro, and Palawan. Flooding (including flash 
floods) and rain -induced landslides may occur during heavy or prolonged rainfall especially in areas that are highly or very highly 
susceptible to these hazards. PAGASA Regional Services Divisions may issue local thunderstorm/rainfall advisories and heavy rainfall 
warnings as appropriate. 
 Winds: TCWS #1 over the western portion of Pang asinan is now lifted. No TCWS is currently in effect.  However, high to gale -
force winds due to the northeasterly surface wind flow will also be experienced over Northern Luzon, especially in coastal an d 
mountainous areas. 
Hazards affecting coastal waters: 
 Gale Warning is in effect due to rough to very rough seas (2.5 to 5.5 m) over the entire seaboards of Northern and Central Lu zon, the 
seaboard of northern Quezon including Polillo Islands, and the western seaboards of Batangas, Occidental Mindoro (includin g Lubang 
Islands), and Palawan (including Calamian and Kalayaan Islands). Sea travel is risky over these areas, especially for those using small 
seacrafts. 
 Moderate to rough seas (1.5 to 3.0 m) will prevail over the eastern seaboards of southern Quezon, Bicol Region, Eastern Visay as, 
Caraga, and Davao Region. Those with small seacrafts are advised to take precautionary measures when venturing out to sea. 
Inexperienced mariners should avoid navigating in these conditions. 
Other disturbance being monitored: 
 At 4:00 PM today, the Tropical Depression outside the PAR was estimated based on all available data at 1,865 km East Northeas t of 
Extreme Northern Luzon (24.4°N, 139.6°E). It has maximum sustained winds of 55 km/h near the center and gustiness of up to 70 km/h. 
It is moving south-southwestward at 10 km/h. This disturbance remains unlikely to enter the PAR. 
Location of 
eye/center 
At 4:00 PM  today, the center o f Severe Tropical 
Storm "PEPITO"  was estimated based on all 
available data at 295 km West of Dagupan City, 
Pangasinan (16.4°N, 117.6°E). 
 
Strength Maximum sustained winds of 95 km/h near the 
center and gustiness of up to 115 km/h. 
Movement Moving Westward at 15 km/h. 
Forecast 
Positions 
 24 Hour (Tomorrow afternoon): 415 km West of 
Sinait, Ilocos Sur (OUTSIDE PAR) (17.4°N, 
116.5°E) 
 48 Hour (Friday afternoon): 540 km West of 
Laoag City, Ilocos Norte (OUTSIDE PAR) 
(18.1°N, 115.5°E) 
 72 Hour (Saturday afternoon): 890 km West of 
Northern Luzon (OUTSIDE PAR) (17.8°N, 
112.2°E) 
 96 Hour (Sunday afternoon): 1,270 km West of 
Northern Luzon (OUTSIDE PAR) (17.8°N, 
108.6°E) 
NO TROPICAL CYCLONE WIND SIGNAL 
The public and the disaster risk reduction and management council concerned are advised to take appropriate actions and watch  for the  
next Severe Weather Bulletin to be issued at 11 PM today. 
     
Prepared by:  SMRR  Checked by:  JSG 
 
