 
Republic of the Philippines 
DEPARTMENT OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY 
Philippine Atmospheric, Geophysical and Astronomical 
Services Administration (PAGASA) 
Weather Division  
 
“Tracking the sky… helping the country” 
WFFC BIR Road Diliman, Quezon City Tel. Nos. (632) 927 1335 www.bagong.pagasa.dost.gov.ph 
SEVERE WEATHER BULLETIN #10 
FOR: TROPICAL STORM "PEPITO" (SAUDEL) 
TROPICAL CYCLONE: WARNING 
ISSUED AT 5:00 PM, 20 October 2020 
(Valid for broadcast until the next bulletin to be issued at 8 PM today) 
TROPICAL STORM "PEPITO”  SLIGHTLY INTENSIFIES AS IT INCREASES ITS THREAT OVER AURORA PROVINCE. 
Track and intensity outlook: 
 Track: “PEPITO” is forecast to make landfall over the coast of Aurora between 6:00 and 10:00 PM today. It will then move generally 
westward while traversing the Luzon landmass, and emerge over the West Philippine Sea tomorrow morning. This tropical cyclone may 
exit the Philippine Area of Responsibility (PAR) on Thursday morning or afternoon. 
 Intensity: After crossing the landmass of Luzon, “PEPITO”  is forecast to intensify and may reach severe tropical storm category by 
Thursday. 
Hazards affecting land areas: 
 Rainfall: Today through tomorrow morning, “PEPITO” will bring moderate to heavy rains over Central Luzon, MIMAROPA, Camarines 
Norte, Quezon, Nueva Vizcaya, Quiri no, Isabela, mainland Cagayan, La Union, Pangasinan, and Benguet. Light to moderate with at 
times heavy rains will be experienced over Metro Manila and the rest of Luzon, Western Visayas, Zamboanga Peninsula, and 
Bangsamoro. Flooding (including flash  floods) and rain-induced landslides may occur during heavy or prolonged rainfall especially in 
areas that are highly or very highly susceptible to these hazards. PAGASA Regional Services Divisions may issue local 
thunderstorm/rainfall advisories and heavy rainfall warnings as appropriate. 
 Winds: High to gale-force winds will be experienced in areas under Tropical Cyclone Wind Signal (TCWS) #1 and 2. High to gale-force 
winds with occasional gusts due to the northeasterly surface wind flow will be experienced over Batanes, B abuyan Islands, and the 
coastal and/or mountainous areas of mainland Cagayan, Apayao, and Ilocos Norte. 
Hazards affecting coastal waters: 
 Gale Warning is in effect over the seaboards of Batanes, Cagayan, and Ilocos Norte  and the western seaboards of Batangas and 
Occidental Mindoro (including Lubang Island) due to rough to very rough seas (2.8 to 5.0 m). Moreover, the seaboards of areas under 
TCWS #1 and 2 will also experience roug h to very rough seas (2.5 to 5.0  m). Sea travel is risky over these areas, especially for those 
using small seacrafts. 
 Moderate to rough seas (1.5 to 3.0 m) will prevail over Palawan and the eastern seaboards of Southern Luzon, Eastern Visayas, Caraga, 
and Davao Region. Those with small seacrafts are advised to take precautionary measures when v enturing out to sea. Inexperienced 
mariners should avoid navigating in these conditions. 
Other disturbance being monitored: 
 At 4:00 PM today, the Tropical Depression outside the PAR was estimated based on all available data at 1,750 km East Northeas t of 
Extreme Northern Luzon (24.6 °N, 138.5°E) with maximum sustained winds of 45 km/h and gustiness of up to 55 km/h. It is moving 
northeastward at 15 km/h. This disturbance is less likely to enter the PAR. 
Location of 
eye/center 
At 4:00 PM today, the center of Tropical Storm 
"PEPITO" was estimated based on all available 
data including Baler and Daet Doppler Radar at 
110 km East of Baler, Aurora (15.8°N, 122.6°E). 
 
Strength Maximum sustained winds of 75 km/h near the 
center and gustiness of up to 90 km/h. 
Movement Moving West Northwestward at 30 km/h. 
Forecast 
Positions 
 24 Hour (Tomorrow afternoon): 275 km 
West of Dagupan City, Pangasinan 
(16.4°N, 117.8°E) 
 48 Hour (Thursday afternoon): 520 km 
West of Dagupan City, Pangasinan 
(OUTSIDE PAR) (16.6°N, 115.5°E) 
 72 Hour (Friday afternoon): 695 km 
West of Dagupan City, Pangasinan 
(OUTSIDE PAR) (16.9°N, 113.9°E) 
 96 Hour (Saturday afternoon):1,040 km 
West of Northern Luzon (OUTSIDE 
PAR) (17.3°N, 110.6°E) 
     
Prepared by:  SMRR  Checked by:  JSG 
 

 
Republic of the Philippines 
DEPARTMENT OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY 
Philippine Atmospheric, Geophysical and Astronomical 
Services Administration (PAGASA) 
Weather Division  
 
“Tracking the sky… helping the country” 
WFFC BIR Road Diliman, Quezon City Tel. Nos. (632) 927 1335 www.bagong.pagasa.dost.gov.ph 
SEVERE WEATHER BULLETIN #10 
FOR: TROPICAL STORM "PEPITO" (SAUDEL) 
TROPICAL CYCLONE: WARNING 
 
TROPICAL CYCLONE WIND SIGNAL 
TCWS Luzon Visayas Mindanao Impacts of the wind 
2 
(61-120 km/h 
winds prevailing 
or expected in 
24 hours) 
La Union, Pangasinan, Ifugao, Benguet, 
Nueva Vizcaya, Quirino, Nueva Ecija, 
Tarlac, Aurora,  the southern portion of 
Isabela (Palanan, San Mariano, Benito 
Soliven, Naguilian, Gamu, Burgos, San 
Manuel, Aurora, Cabatuan, Luna, Reina 
Mercedes, Cauayan City, Dinapigue, San 
Guillermo, Angadanan, Alicia, San Mateo, 
Ramon, San Isidro, Echague, San Agustin, 
Jones, Santiago City, Cordon), the southern 
portion of Ilocos Sur (Sugpon, Alilem, 
Tagudin), the northern portion of Zambales 
(Iba, Palauig, Masinloc, Candelaria, Santa 
Cruz, Botolan, Cabangan), and the northern 
portion of Quezon (General Nakar) 
including Polillo Islands 
- - 
 Light to Moderate damage to high risk 
structures;  
 Very light to light damage to medium -risk 
structures; 
 No damage to very light damage to low risk 
structures 
 Unshielded, old dilapidated schoolhouses, 
makeshift shanties, and other structures of 
light materials are partially damaged or 
unroofed. 
 A number of nipa and cogon houses may 
be partially or totally unroofed. 
 Some old galvanized iron (G. I.) roofs may 
be peeled or blown off. 
 Some wooden, old electric posts are tilted 
or downed. 
 Some damage to poorly constructed 
signs/billboards 
 In general, the winds may bring light to 
moderate damage to the exposed 
communities. Most banana plants, a few 
mango trees, ipil -ipil and similar types of 
trees are downed or broken. 
 Some coconut trees may be tilted with few 
others broken. 
 Rice and corn may be adversely affected. 
 Considerable damage to shrubbery and 
trees with some heavy-foliaged trees blown 
down. 
1 
(30-60 km/h 
winds prevailing 
or expected in 
36 hours) 
Abra, Kalinga, Mountain Province, 
Bulacan, Pampanga, Bataan, Metro Manila, 
Rizal, the rest of northern portion of 
Quezon (Infanta, Real), the rest of Ilocos 
Sur, the rest of Isabela, and the rest of 
Zambales 
- - 
 Very light or no damage to low 
risk structures,  
 Light damage to medium to 
high risk structures 
 Slight damage to some houses 
of very light materials or 
makeshift structures in 
exposed communities. Some 
banana plants are tilted, a few 
downed and leaves are 
generally damaged 
 Twigs of small trees may be 
broken. 
 Rice crops, however, may 
suffer significant damage when 
it is in its flowering stage. 
TCWS #1 over Catanduanes and the northern portion of Camarines Norte are now lifted. 
The public and the disaster risk reduction and management council concerned are advised to take appropriate actions 
and watch for the next Severe Weather Bulletin to be issued at 8 PM today. 
 
     
Prepared by:  SMRR  Checked by:  JSG 
