 
Republic of the Philippines 
DEPARTMENT OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY 
Philippine Atmospheric, Geophysical and Astronomical 
Services Administration (PAGASA) 
Weather Division 
 
 
     
Prepared by:  RPG  Checked by:  SFD 
 
“Tracking the sky… helping the country” 
WFFC BIR Road Diliman, Quezon City Tel. Nos. (632) 927 1335 www.bagong.pagasa.dost.gov.ph 
SEVERE WEATHER BULLETIN #12 
FOR: TROPICAL STORM "PEPITO" (SAUDEL) 
TROPICAL CYCLONE: WARNING 
ISSUED AT 11:00 PM, 20 October 2020 
(Valid for broadcast until the next bulletin to be issued at 2 AM tomorrow) 
TROPICAL STORM "PEPITO" MAKES LANDFALL IN CASIGURAN, AURORA. 
Landfall information: 
 At 9:00 PM today, the center of Tropical Storm “PEPITO” made landfall in the vicinity of San Ildefonso Peninsula in Casiguran, Aurora. 
Track and intensity outlook: 
 Track: “PEPITO” is forecast to move generally westward over the Luzon landmass and emerge over the West Philippine Sea tomorrow 
morning. This tropical cyclone may exit the Philippine Area of Responsibility (PAR) on Thursday morning or afternoon. 
 Intensity: “PEPITO” will likely maintain its strength while crossing the landmass. However, a slight weakening in its intensity remains 
a possibility. After crossing Luzon, this tropical cyclone is forecast to further intensity and will likely reach severe tropical storm 
category on Thursday. 
Hazards affecting land areas: 
 Rainfall: Tonight through tomorrow morning, “PEPITO” will bring moderate to heavy rains over Central Luzon, Cordillera 
Administrative Region, northern Quezon (including Polillo Islands), Nu eva Vizcaya, Quirino, Isabela, mainland Cagayan, La Union, 
at Pangasinan. Light to moderate with at times heavy rains will be experienced over Metro Manila and the rest of Luzon, Weste rn 
Visayas, Zamboanga Peninsula, and Bangsamoro. Flooding (including fla sh floods) and rain -induced landslides may occur during 
heavy or prolonged rainfall especially in areas that are highly or very highly susceptible to these hazards. PAGASA Regional Services 
Divisions may issue local thunderstorm/rainfall advisories and heavy rainfall warnings as appropriate. 
 Winds: High to gale-force winds will be experienced in areas under Tropical Cyclone Wind Signal (TCWS) #1 and 2. High to gale -
force winds due to the northeasterly surface wind flow will be experienced over the rest of northern Luzon, especially in coa stal and 
mountainous areas. 
Hazards affecting coastal waters: 
 Gale Warning is in effect over the seaboards of Batanes, Cagayan, and Ilocos Norte and the western seaboards of Batangas, 
Occidental Mindoro (including Lubang Island), and Palawan (including Calamian Islands) due to rough to very rough seas (2.8 to 5.5 
m). Moreover, the seaboards of areas under TCWS #1 and 2 will also experience rough to very rough seas (2.5 to 5.5 m). Sea travel 
is risky over these areas, especially for those using small seacrafts. 
 Moderate to rough seas (1. 5 to 3.0 m) will prevail over Palawan and the eastern seaboards of Southern Luzon, Eastern Visayas, 
Caraga, and Davao Region. Those with small seacrafts are advised to take precautionary measures when venturing out to sea. 
Inexperienced mariners should avoid navigating in these conditions. 
Other disturbance being monitored: 
 At 10:00 PM today, the Tropical Depression outside the PAR was estimated based on all available data at 1,825 km East Northea st 
of Basco, Batanes (24.8°N, 139.1°E). It has maximum sustained winds of 55 km/h near the center and gustiness of up to 70 km/h. It 
is currently almost stationary. This disturbance remains less likely to enter the PAR. 
Location of 
eye/center 
At 10:00 PM today, the center of  "PEPITO" was estimated 
based on all a vailable data including Baler and Benguet 
Doppler Radars  in the vicinity of Dinalungan, Aurora   
(16.2°N, 121.8°E). 
 
Strength Maximum sustained winds of 75 km/h near the center and 
gustiness of up to 125 km/h. 
Movement Moving Westward at 20 km/h. 
Forecast 
Positions 
 24 Hour (Tomorrow evening): 315 km West of 
Dagupan City, Pangasinan (16.0°N, 117.4°E) 
 48 Hour (Thursday evening): 470 km West of 
Dagupan City, Pangasinan (OUTSIDE PAR) 
(16.7°N, 116.0°E) 
 72 Hour (Friday evening): 670 km West of Sinait, 
Ilocos Sur (OUTSIDE PAR) (17.2°N, 114.1°E) 
 96 Hour (Saturday evening): 1,005 km West of 
Northern Luzon (OUTSIDE PAR) (17.5°N, 
110.9°E) 

 
Republic of the Philippines 
DEPARTMENT OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY 
Philippine Atmospheric, Geophysical and Astronomical 
Services Administration (PAGASA) 
Weather Division 
 
 
     
Prepared by:  RPG  Checked by:  SFD 
 
“Tracking the sky… helping the country” 
WFFC BIR Road Diliman, Quezon City Tel. Nos. (632) 927 1335 www.bagong.pagasa.dost.gov.ph 
SEVERE WEATHER BULLETIN #12 
FOR: TROPICAL STORM "PEPITO" (SAUDEL) 
TROPICAL CYCLONE: WARNING 
TROPICAL CYCLONE WIND SIGNAL 
TCWS Luzon Visayas Mindanao Impacts of the wind 
2 
(61-120 km/h 
winds 
prevailing or 
expected in 24 
hours) 
La Union, Pangasinan, Ifugao, Benguet, Nueva 
Vizcaya, Quirino, Nueva Ecija, Tarlac, Aurora,  
the southern portion of Isabela (Palanan, San 
Mariano, Benito Soliven, Naguilian, Gamu, Burgos, 
San Manuel, Aurora, Cabatuan, Luna, Reina 
Mercedes, Cauayan City, Dinapigue, San 
Guillermo, Angadanan, Alicia, San Mateo, Ramon, 
San Isidro, Echague, San Agustin, Jones, 
Santiago City, Cordon), the southern portion of 
Ilocos Sur (Sugpon, Alilem, Tagudin), the 
northern portion of Zambales (Iba, Palauig, 
Masinloc, Candelaria, Santa Cruz, Botolan, 
Cabangan), the northern portion of Bulacan 
(San Miguel, Doña Remedios Trinidad), the 
northern portion of Pampanga (Candaba, 
Arayat, Magalang, Mabalacat) and the northern 
portion of Quezon (General Nakar) including 
Polillo Islands 
- - 
 Light to Moderate damage to high risk 
structures;  
 Very light to light damage to medium -risk 
structures; 
 No damage to very light damage to low risk 
structures 
 Unshielded, old dilapidated schoolhouses, 
makeshift shanties, and other structures of 
light materials are partially damaged or 
unroofed. 
 A number of nipa and cogon houses may 
be partially or totally unroofed. 
 Some old galvanized iron (G.I.) roofs may 
be peeled or blown off. 
 Some wooden, old electric posts are tilted 
or downed. 
 Some damage to poorly constructed 
signs/billboards 
 In general, the winds may bring light to 
moderate damage to the exposed 
communities. Most  banana plants, a few 
mango trees, ipil -ipil and similar types of 
trees are downed or broken. 
 Some coconut trees may be tilted with few 
others broken. 
 Rice and corn may be adversely affected. 
 Considerable damage to shrubbery and 
trees with some heavy -foliaged trees 
blown down. 
1 
(30-60 km/h 
winds 
prevailing or 
expected in 36 
hours) 
Abra, Kalinga, Mountain Province, Bataan, 
Metro Manila, Rizal, the rest of northern portion 
of Quezon (Infanta, Real), the rest of Ilocos Sur, 
the rest of Isabela, the rest of Pampanga, the 
rest of Bulacan, and the rest of Zambales 
- - 
 Very light or no damage to low risk 
structures,  
 Light damage to medium to high risk 
structures 
 Slight damage to some houses of very light 
materials or makes hift structures in 
exposed communities. Some banana 
plants are tilted, a few downed and leaves 
are generally damaged 
 Twigs of small trees may be broken. 
 Rice crops, however, may suffer significant 
damage when it is in its flowering stage. 
The public and the disaster risk reduction and management council concerned are advised to take appropriate actions and 
watch for the next Severe Weather Bulletin to be issued at 2 AM tomorrow. 
 