 
Republic of the Philippines 
DEPARTMENT OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY 
Philippine Atmospheric, Geophysical and Astronomical 
Services Administration (PAGASA) 
Weather Division  
 
“Tracking the sky… helping the country” 
WFFC BIR Road Diliman, Quezon City Tel. Nos. (632) 927 1335 www.bagong.pagasa.dost.gov.ph 
SEVERE WEATHER BULLETIN #23-FINAL 
FOR: TYPHOON "QUINTA" (MOLAVE) 
TROPICAL CYCLONE: ALERT 
ISSUED AT 11:00 PM, 27 October 2020 
TYPHOON "QUINTA" CONTINUES TO MOVE AWAY FROM THE KALAYAAN ISLANDS. 
Track and intensity outlook: 
"QUINTA” is forecast to make landfall at or near peak intensity over the central portion of Vietnam tomorrow morning. 
 
Hazards affecting land areas: 
• Rainfall: Tonight through tomorrow morning, the outer circulation of “QUINTA” will continue to bring light t o moderate with at times 
heavy rains over Western Visayas, Batanes, Babuyan Is lands, Cagayan, Isabela, Aurora, Occidental Mindoro, Palawan including 
Calamian, Cuyo, and Kalayaan Islands, Zamboanga Peninsula, Basilan, Sulu, and Tawi-Tawi. Flooding (including flash floods) and 
rain-induced landslides may occur during heavy or prolonged rainfall especially in areas that are highly or very highly susceptible to 
these hazards. PAGASA Regional Services Divisions may issue local thunderstorm/rainfall advisories and heavy rainfall warnings as 
appropriate.  
• Strong winds: The tropical cyclone wind signal over the Kalayaan Islands has been lifted. However, this area, along with the 
rest of Palawan including Calamian and Cuyo Islands  and the coastal ar eas of Occidenta l Mindoro, Bataan, and Zambales wi ll 
continue to experience occasional gusty conditions until tomorrow. In other areas, strong breeze to near gale conditions associated 
with the northeasterlies will prevail over Batanes and Babuyan Islands due to the northeasterlies. 
 
Hazards affecting coastal waters: 
Rough to very rough seas (2.8 to 4.5 m) will be experienced over the northern and western seaboards of Luzon. Sea travel is risky over 
these waters especially for mariners of small seacrafts. 
 
Other tropical systems being monitored: 
At 10:00 PM today, the Tropical Depression outside the Philippine Area of Responsibility (PAR) was estimated based on all available 
data at 2,025 km East of Central Luzon (16.3ºN,141.1ºE). It has maximum sustained winds of 55 km/h near the center and gustiness o f 
up to 70 km/h. It is currently moving north-northwestward slowly and remains far away to affect the weather condition in the country at this 
time. On the forecast track, this t ropical depression is forecast to enter the PAR between tomorrow late evening and Thursday morning.  
Over the next 48 hours, it is likely to intensify into a tropical storm. The next complete update on this tropical cyclone will be incorporated 
in the advisory to be issued at 11:00 AM tomorrow. 
Location of 
eye/center 
At 10:00 PM today, the eye of Typhoon "QUINTA" 
was located based on all available data at 400 km 
Northwest of Pagasa Island, Palawan (OUTSIDE 
PAR) (13.7°N, 111.7°E). 
 
Strength Maximum sustained winds of 155 km/h near the 
center and gustiness of up to 190 km/h. 
Movement Moving Westward at 25 km/h. 
Forecast 
Positions 
• 24 Hour (Tomorrow evening): 920 km West 
Northwest of Pagasa Island, Palawan 
(OUTSIDE PAR) (15.2°N, 106.8°E) 
NO TROPICAL CYCLONE WIND SIGNAL 
With this development, this is the final bulletin for this weather disturbance.  
The next update on this tropical cyclone will be incorporated in the Public Weather Forecast at 4:00 AM tomorrow 
     
Prepared by:  RPG  Checked by:  SFD 
 
